# Boolean Operators

So we've seen that we can check the conditions present in our programs and make decisions based on boolean values derived from those conditions. What if the condition is more complex? 

## and operator `&&`

Consider the following:

```javascript
let d = "derp";
let h = "herp";
```

We want to do something if d is equal to `derp` AND h is equal to `herp`.

How do we express that?

Well we can use the `&&` operator. All this means is **and**. You can remember that because the ampersand means and in english.

```javascript
let d = "derp";
let h = "herp";

console.log(d === "derp" && h === "herp"); // true
```

So, we can then say:

```javascript
let d = "derp";
let h = "herp";

if (d === "derp" && h === "herp") {
    console.log("d is derp AND h is herp")
} else {
    console.log("oops, either d is not derp or h is not herp");
}
```

This is important. Because it's an AND. Both sides of the `&&` must be true for the whole expression to resolve to true.

```javascript
let d = "derp";
let h = "notherp";

console.log(d === "derp" && h === "herp"); // false
```

But sometimes you may just be happy enough with one of the conditions being true. Enter the or operator.

## or operator `||`

If you can understand the `&&`, then the `||` isnt too much of a stretch.

```javascript
let d = "derp";
let h = "notherp";

console.log(d === "derp" || h === "herp"); // true
```

Repeating myself but, with the or operator. Only one side of the expression needs to be true for the whole thing to resolve to true.

```javascript
let x = 1
let y = 2

console.log(x === 0 || y === 0); // false
```

## not operator `!`

The final boolean operator we can use is the not operator. 

```javascript
console.log(!true); // false
console.log(!false); // true

console.log(!(1===1)); // false (note the brackets)

```

This is arguably the simplest to understand but can be fickle. In the same way double negatives in english can be a mind fuck, that goes doubly so in programming:

```javascript
let x = 1;
let y = 2;

if (!(x !== y)) {
    console.log("oh my god thats hard to read")
} else {
    console.log("never write an expression like that")
}

```

That was hard to read wasnt it? It's an example of what not to do. Theres two nots in here which would cancel out, so the expression becomes:

```javascript
if (x === y) {
    console.log("Much better")
}
```

> Theres actually a formal algebra describing this called boolean algebra. It describes the decision making process which computers (and other worldly shit) undertake on the bare metal level. One day we might go into how you can use boolean 'gates' to create mathematical circuitry such as adding machines.

## Truthiness and Falsiness

In most (all?) programming languages, there is some concept of truthy and falsy. A falsy value is a **non boolean** value which when forced into a boolean state, evaluates to true or false.

Each primitive type has a falsy value and they're pretty obvious for the most part. Here are the falsy values for each type. Any other value is truthy.

* number: 0
* string: ""
* boolean: false
* undefined: undefined
* null: null

So the following:

```javascript
if (false) {
    console.log("i wont execute")
}
```

is functionally the same as:

```javascript
if (0) {
    console.log("i wont execute")
}
```

and:

```javascript
if ("") {
    console.log("i wont execute")
}
```

> BE CAREFUL: This only applies to primitive types. For example, an empty array is still truthy.

## Double Bang

So now we know what a truthy and falsy values are, we can use a double bang `!!` to convert them to a boolean.

```javascript
let x = null;

console.log(!!"hello") // true
console.log(!!"") // false
console.log(!!0) // false

console.log(!!x) // ??
```


