# Liam's super awesome full stack webdev course

Bro, I'm gonna teach you to make full stack web applications. The aim is for you to be at the level of a junior web developer at the end so you could go and get a job. It's a useful and fun skill to have regardless though so it's not gonna be all in the context of doing it at work.

I would aim toward that standard though. If you can do it professionally then you are in a position where you could earn well over what experienced teaching assistants (and possibly teachers) earn on day one as a junior dev. That being said, it's not just the money. It's just better for your mind and soul than the environment you're currently working in.

Anyway, a few things to keep in mind:

* We're not doing this based on a schedule which means we can, for example, do four hours one day and zero hours the next. However, we need to be careful that we don't leave week long gaps in between "lessons" because that's just the long road to quitting.
* Remember, I'm teaching **you** one on one. If you don't understand something or would like to go back to a section (even it's from months ago) then tell me and we'll do it again. Like I said, we're not on a schedule.
* I know what you're like... you feel stupid if you need to ask a question, especially if it's for the tenth time. Please don't, just ask. It's all super brand new to you and if you need 20 explanations then so be it.
* I promise to be as patient with you as I can but you need to be patient with me too. It's my first time teaching this stuff there will definitely be a cognitive bias which might get frustrating for you.
* Please persevere. I promise you that once the learning curve starts to level out and you can start solving problems on your own you'll be hooked on the seratonin rush.
* Lastly, to follow on from the last point; this will be just like learning any discipline. You need to do some practice on your own to cement the skills. I can give you problems to solve though and i'll obviously be there to give pointers when stuck.

I'm not trying to lecture you here but the bottom line is that if you don't agree with any or all of that, or don't follow through on it (me included, you might have to remind me of this section at some point) then we'll end up flopping.

`----BEGIN BLOOD PACT----`

## Getting Started

To get started we need a few tools and services:

1. Get a text editor, you can use whichever one you find which you like, but I use VS Code so we'll use that for now.

2. Get a github account (You should already have one if you're reading this).

3. Install Node.

[read this](https://medium.com/the-mission/heres-why-learning-how-to-code-is-so-hard-and-what-to-do-about-it-3d6fda152409)