# Objectives

The objectives for this process are ambiguous and can/will be changed depending on both what I think of in the future and what you want to do. However, the overall aim is to give you the skills and confidence to create a full stack web application.

These are in some kind of logical order, but the order is by no mean set in stone. We will definitely do the front end first. You can get a job as a front end developer and develop apps and websites with just those skills. However full stack devs are more skilled and are paid more. Also having knowledge of the rest of the stack provides invaluable intuition.

## Soft Skills:
* Linux & Command Line:
    * Able to navigate the file system using both the GUI and the command line.
    * Able to install software using `dpkg` and `apt`.
    * Fully comfortable using `node` from the command line to run projects or install packages.
* Git:
    * Able to set up a new Git repository and link it to GitHub.
    * Solid understanding of Basic Git and why source control is so important.
    * Able to work collaboratively using branches.
* Browser:
    * Understand what a browser actually is and how it works.
    * Understanding of the DOM (Document Object Model).
    * Able to use DevTools to debug code and make edits to the DOM.

## Technical Skills
* JS:
    * Too many here to list but I'll do a few top level ones
    * Understand types, variables and constants.
    * Able to read and write control flow statements. (`if`, `for`, `while`)
    * Able to write functions and understand why they are useful
    * Understand modules and exports.
    * Able to recall at least some useful built in functions
    * Basic understanding of Object Oriented Programming using classes.
    * Able to at least convert JS to compilable TypeScript.

* Front End:
    * HTML:
        * Can write basic HTML and can identify the difference between tags and attributes.
        * Working knowledge of common tag types.
        * 
    * CSS:
        * Understand the CSS Box Model.
        * Able to use flexbox to position elements.
        * Able to write css using a pre-processor such as SASS.
    * React:
        * Able to write JSX.
        * Understanding of the React component lifecycle.
        * Able integrate Redux into an app and understand the problems it solves.
* Back End:
    * HTTP & APIs:
        * Able to create basic, sanely structured API endpoints
        * Understand the difference between `http` and `https`.
        * Understand RESTful architecture and the difference between common HTTP verbs.
        * 
    * Databases:
        * Able to query and add data to a non-relational database such as MongoDB.
        * Able to query and add data to a relational database such as MySQL.



Front End Skills
